---
description: Some pre-cautions that you must know before using this plugin
time: 3-4 mins
---
If you need a markdown version of this tutorial, click [this link](/downloads/projects/obsidian-equation-citator/tutorials.zip)   
## Usage of Settings Tab
### (1) How to use the Settings Tab  
We have 3 view modes for better arrangements  
1. **Concise** (Default) : This shows **mostly used settings** in the `Basic` part and other less used ones at `Advanced` tab.  You can also configure which setting to show in the `customize display settings`. 
2. **Categorial** (Suggested/Pro Option) : This shows all settings in different categories, which might be the cleanest view if you want to search a specific type. 
3. **List** : This view **allows you to search the settings** 

**IMPORTANT** : You will **not find all settings in concise mode**, you need to enable it in "Customize Display sections" or **switch to "Categorical"** or **List** mode to find all settings. 

>  If you want to create an issue that related with adding a new setting, please check the categorial view and search in the list part to see if such setting already exists. 
### (2) Cheat Settings  
There is a **fast math renderer option** located in `Categorial > Equation Panel > Use fast math renderer in equation panel`.  I really suggest turning on this option because this **increase the load speed of equation panel drastically**. The only inevitable bug is the symbol maybe not fully load, which can be easily solved by simply scrolling/jumping. 

## Grammar Rules 
You will need to following some simple rules to ensure this plugin work correctly 
### (1) Code block format 
1. Code blocks :  Always use 3 backticks for code block like following (4 and 5 backticks are also supported but not recommended. 6 backticks can lead to wrong code block recognition (since 6 backticks in a line can either form a inline code or a code block).
```latex
Code block 
```
### (2) Citing Clarity  
1. Avoid using `\}` in your tag or citation (this will cause the tag recognized incorrectly) 
2. Use number (1,2,3,.... ) for footnotes, not use characters. 
3. For callouts, **every line should start with greater sign** `>`. Implicit callout line with no `>` sign would be neglected. 

### (3) Write Equation block   
Our auto-number algorithm assumes that **every equation block has `$$` starts from a new line**, and the endline of equation block is ended with `$$`. This increase the parsing speed of notes. 

✅ CORRECT EXAMPLES : 
```latex
%1-line equation block format%  
$$ \Large \boxed{dg = - s dT+v dp } $$  

%multi-line equation block format%
$$   %% only space is allowed before the dollar braces
\Large \boxed{dg = - s dT+v dp }
$$

%or write equation freely in multi-line%
$$ du = \left(\frac{\partial u}{\partial s}\right)_v ds +\left( \frac{\partial u}{\partial v}\right)_s dv \rightarrow
\quad \boxed{T = \left( \frac{\partial u}{\partial s}\right)_v, \quad p = - \left(\frac{\partial u}{\partial v} \right)_s} \tag{3.1.1} $$
```

❌ NOT SUPPORTED EXAMPLES :
First case is write text before the `$$` braces and then put close `$$` in a new line : 
```Latex
this  is an $$ equation 1 
$$  % This will be considered as the equation start, and can cause wrong auto-number
```
Note for the equations in tables, they will be neglected automatically and not be auto-numbered.

```latex
%% not write text after $$, this will stop auto-numbering%% 
$$
Equation 2
$$ block  # text after equation block
```

For the second case, you'll get a Notice `Detected illegal nested $$ in equation block at line xxx` if you try to auto-number. You can enable `settings > Editor > Line Numbers` to fix it.  


> [!warning] 
> You should follow above rules if you use this plugin. Issues caused by not following above rules may be closed without being fixed. 
